add mental model section for PQS plus other edits (#536)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/2.7.5/docs/query/pqs-user-guide.rst

If a participant node's ledger is restored from a backup, it will review the data on the sequencer and process it to the latest information. However, in performing this rehydration, the resulting PN can have a different set of offset values than it had before the backup. For Daml 2.x,, the order of event processing and transaction IDs remain the same, but the resulting offsets likely change. If a client application caches offset data or stores it in a database, those datastores will also need to be replayed to have the proper offset values of the restored participant node.

.. _pqs-time-model:

Time Model within PQS
=====================

PQS builds on the offset concept of the participant node's ledger, and PQS is a valid representation of that ledger. PQS processes events asynchronously and concurrently, but the PQS programming model is intended to simplify development. The offset forms the basis for the PQS programming model. Helper functions make it easy to reason about offset values, pushing that complexity into the background. This section discusses how PQS models time.

> NOTE:  Use of the helper functions is required for your application to upgrade in future releases. Direct table access is unsupported because the schema may change in a future release. There should be no inherent overhead in using the API so performance should not suffer.

Author: @hrischuk-da Does this need further explanation? The way I read it, you need to use the helper functions now. If you directly access the table instead of using the helper functions and the schema changes in an upgrade, you might run into problems? I could be wrong.

> NOTE:  Use of the helper functions is required for your application to upgrade in future releases. Direct table access is unsupported because the schema may change in a future release. There should be no inherent overhead in using the API so performance should not suffer.

Reviewer: @loiskilberg-da your reading is correct.  Please feel free to embellish my chicken scrath.

- A high availability PQS configuration does not have synchronized PQS instances.

All distributed systems are subject to network issues. For example, networks that host the gRPC and JDBC query requests can both have intermittent issues. You must program the client application to retry for certain failures because the intermittent failure will heal itself. Most network outages are temporary, in which case the application can proceed without failing.

.. image:: ./images/external-data.svg
   :alt: A diagram showing queries using grpc and JDBC

If the PQS has been (re)started or is freshly installed, then the PQS needs to catch up to the participant node's generated events. Until that happens, the PQS will not have all the data available for querying.

There is a slight delay between when a participant node has finished the ledger processing and emitted an event and when the PQS finishes processing the event so that the result is available to query. For example, if the participant query performs a synchronous exercise and then immediately queries the PQS, it is remotely possible that PQS will not yet have the data. In this case, the client application needs to retry.

> Lastly, a highly available production deployment (see the following figure) will have multiple PQS instances, each of which processes events at slightly different rates. In this manner, the PQS instances are not synchronized, so they will process events and commit the results to the database with different times. If the client application makes a query to the PQS service which is being serviced by PQS #A and then PQS #A fails, the client application retries after a timeout, which is then serviced by PQS #B. It is possible that PQS #B will not have its watermark at the same offset as PQS #A when PQS #A failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, a highly available production deployment (see the following figure) has multiple PQS instances, each of which processes events at slightly different rates. Since the PQS instances are not synchronized, they process events and commit the results to the database with different times. If the client application makes a query to the PQS service which is being serviced by PQS #A and then PQS #A fails, the client application retries after a timeout, which is then serviced by PQS #B. It is possible that PQS #B does not have its watermark at the same offset as PQS #A when PQS #A failed.
```

.. image:: ./images/multiple-pqs.svg
   :alt: A diagram showing a multiple PQS deployment

Install and start PQS
*********************

> Meet Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Meet prerequisites
```

``-pipeline-parties`` argument. This argument acts as a filter, restricting
the data to only what's visible to the supplied list of party identifiers. 

The authentication of PQS needs to match the participant nodes (PN) setup. For
example, if PQS is run with authentication by setting OAuth and the PN is not
configured to use authentication, then an error will result. The error will
have a message like ``requests with an empty user-id are only supported if
there is an authenticated user``.

> Set Up PostgreSQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up PostgreSQL
```

information.

The ``--pipeline-filter string`` option needs a filter expression to determine
which templates and interfaces to include. A filter expression is a simple wildcard

> inclusion statement with basic boolean logic, where whitespace is ignored. Below are some examples:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
inclusion statement with basic Boolean logic, where whitespace is ignored. Below are some examples:
```
